#  Explain what MERN Stack is and its components

Imagine you're a reel start, you're excited to create an awesome Instagram
reel. You open the app and start shooting your video. You add filters, 
effects, and music to make it really cool and unique.

Next, you focus on making it look great. You play around with different
layouts, fonts, colors and music to catch people's attention as they
scroll through their feed.

Once your reel is ready, you want to share it with as many people as 
possible. You use features like sharing, commenting, and direct messaging 
to engage with your audience and get them involved.

But behind the scenes, there's something special making all of this 
possible. It's like the engine running Instagram, handling everything from 
storing your content to making sure it reaches the right people. It's what 
makes Instagram such an amazing platform for sharing your creative vision 
with the world.


In order to develop a web application with a plethora of features like 
connecting with others, messaging, posting content, and interacting with 
posts by liking and unliking them, we need a robust technology solution 
that covers both front-end and back-end development. This is where a full 
stack technology comes into play, providing all the necessary tools for 
building complex applications directly in the browser.

## Full Stack Technology

MERN stack is a type of full stack, where the technology layers are 
pre-defined. Before diving into the MERN stack, let's quickly understand 
what a technology stack is. In simple terms, a technology stack refers to 
the combination of tools and technologies chosen to build applications 
such as web or mobile apps. A well-rounded technology stack should 
prioritize delivering a seamless user experience while also being scalable 
and cost-effective. This comprehensive setup typically consists of three 
main components: the frontend, backend, and database, collectively known 
as a full technology stack.

Let's break down a typical technology stack using an illustrative example. 
At the frontend, we have the user interface, which commonly relies on 
foundational technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Depending on the 
project's needs, developers may opt to enhance the frontend using 
libraries or frameworks such as React or Angular, which build upon these 
core technologies.

Moving on to the backend, this is where the application logic resides on a 
server. Developers can implement this logic using various programming 
languages such as JavaScript, Java, or Python, or leverage frameworks like 
Django, Spring, or Express.js. Additionally, to execute these programs 
effectively, an appropriate runtime environment such as Node.js or Java 
Runtime Environment (JRE) is required.

Finally, we have the database, acting as the storage hub for all 
application-related data. Developers have the flexibility to choose 
between relational database systems, which store data in tabular 
structures, or non-relational databases (NoSQL), offering diverse 
structures like document or graph formats. Examples of databases include 
MongoDB, Oracle, and MySQL.


## What is the MERN stack?

The MERN stack is a powerful toolkit utilized for constructing web 
applications from the ground up. It's particularly favored for creating 
single-page applications, that interacts with the user in real-time by 
simply rendering the current page with the desired information. 

MERN stands for MongoDB, Express, React, and Node, these four  
essential technologies playing a crucial role in the web development 
process.

MongoDB - document oriented database

Express(.js) - web application framework of Node.js

React(.js) - a client-side JavaScript framework

Node(.js) - Javascript web server (runtime)


MongoDB serves as the database, providing a flexible and scalable solution 
for storing and managing application data. Express, a web application 
framework built on top of Node.js, facilitates the development of robust 
server-side applications. React, a JavaScript library, powers the user 
interface, allowing developers to create dynamic and engaging experiences 
for users. Lastly, Node.js acts as the server-side runtime environment, 
enabling the execution of JavaScript code outside of the browser.

## React.js Front End in MERN Stack

Facebook introduced React in 2011, formerly known as React.js or Reactjs.  
Today, React stands as the most widely used open-source JavaScript 
framework for creating web user interfaces. One of its standout features 
is the ability to create reusable UI components, simplifying the 
development of high-performance dynamic web applications.


React excels in managing stateful, data-driven interfaces with minimal 
code and hassle, offering robust support for essential features such as 
forms, error handling, events, and lists.

Key highlights of React include its high performance, utilization of JSX, 
reliance on components and virtual DOM, and compatibility with 
high-performance frameworks. Moreover, React.js facilitates the 
development of Android and iOS applications, further expanding its 
versatility and applicability in the realm of web development.


## MongoDB Database Tier in MERN Stack

MongoDB is a NoSQL database in which each record is a document made up of 
key-value pairs that look like JSON objects. The database tier of the MERN 
stack is MongoDB. MongoDB is mostly used in the development process to 
store data. One of the most critical pillars in the MERN stack is MongoDB. 
It enables developers to directly access data from front-end code.

For instance, consider a simple request/response scenario using the MERN 
stack to perform CRUD (Create, Read, ) operations. Let's say a user wishes 
to create a new post on a social media platform. The frontend, built with 
React.js, captures the post details and sends a POST request to the 
backend server, powered by Express.js and Node.js. The server receives the 
request, validates the data, and stores the post information in MongoDB 
using Mongoose, a MongoDB object modeling tool. Upon successful creation, 
the server sends a response back to the frontend confirming the post's 
addition.






